## December 21, 2020 [Private Meeting]

* Bosun: ~~Jordan Liggitt~~
* Note Taker:
* Steering Committee Attendees:
    * Bob Killen (@mrbobbytables)
    * Christoph Blecker (@cblecker)
    * ~~Derek Carr (@derekwaynecarr)~~
    * Davanum Srinivas (@dims)
    * ~~Jordan Liggitt (@liggitt)~~
    * ~~Nikhita Raghunath (@nikhita)~~
    * Paris Pittman (@parispittman)
* Topics:
    * Meeting punted for async comms and reviews on outstanding items

## December 7, 2020 [Public Meeting]

* Bosun: Derek Carr
* Note Taker:
* Steering Committee Attendees:
    * Bob Killen (@mrbobbytables)
    * ~~Christoph Blecker (@cblecker)~~
    * Derek Carr (@derekwaynecarr)
    * ~~Davanum Srinivas (@dims)~~
    * Jordan Liggitt (@liggitt)
    * Nikhita Raghunath (@nikhita)
    * Paris Pittman (@parispittman)
* Members of the Community:
    * Ihor Dvoretskyi (CNCF)
* Topics:
    * From election retro - This election did not improve the ethnic/gender diversity of SC.  Is there anything we can reasonably do to encourage SC diversity without quo`tas?
        * [paris] encourage role turnover in other areas that are feeder pools into steering
        * [nikhita] also draft help in community-oriented work from people we think could be a good fit
        * [bob] Want to make sure we don’t come off as “endorsing” or “grooming” for steering committee
        * [Jordan] like the idea of identifying ways for community members to participate in steering projects to help the community and get visibility as a nice side-effect
    * WG reports
        * [paris] need at least 10 mins on this one
            * in theory, we're rolling out the annual reports to all sigs in January, but might still need some adjustments after the WG trial run
            * has been interviewing other community and end-users to get a sense for how other communities handle similar reports and what end-users find useful
            * seeing patterns in incoming WG reports
                * we want a clear picture of health/needs, we're getting minimal info in some responses
                * reports tended to start more detailed and trail off as the doc went on; maybe consider putting the things we consider most necessary first in case writers run out of steam
            * feedback from people filling out the reports was confusion/discomfort mixing the personal "you and your role" section into a public doc on the health of the WG; suggest limiting the doc to the SIG/WG bits, and have a 1:1 with SIG/WG leads and steering liaison to give feedback on personal involvement in the role (bandwidth, friction, support from community, etc)
            * need example answers to questions to guide responses (level of detail, links to devstats/KEPs, etc)
    * Kubernetes website notifications
        * Operationalizing policy: [https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/communication/website-guidelines.md](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/communication/website-guidelines.md)
            * Can we move this to /committee-steering in community? Or our steering repo in a new communications folder there? [paris]
            * [Jordan/Bob] restructuring mechanics for website, right approvers/reviewers on the folder for pieces that went in website, and had a way to handle periods that a banner would run.
    * Needs Review:
        * Election retro followup - [https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/5326](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/5326)
        * Verify script to limit bio word count - [https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/5324](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/5324)
        * Update LF course for inclusive training - [https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/5328](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/5328)
    * CNCF Updates:
        * Maintainers circle is starting soon - Dec 17th first meeting. All reviewers, approvers, subproject owners, and project decision makers (committees, etc) are invited!! Topics will include maintainer/leader topics like: burnout/managing time, managing during grief and loss, developing values and principles.

## November 16, 2020 [Private Meeting]

* Bosun: Derek Carr
* Note Taker:
* Steering Committee Attendees:
    * Bob Killen (@mrbobbytables)
    * Davanum Srinivas (@dims)
    * Jordan Liggitt (@liggitt)
    * Nikhita Raghunath (@nikhita)
    * Paris Pittman (@parispittman)
* Topics:
    * canceled to give back time after election retro same day
    * 2020 Steering Committee Election Retro. Head to [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xLs1PLoPDXHZAgImNHTiepn_f7-k5HjsCZqaozgFLzI/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xLs1PLoPDXHZAgImNHTiepn_f7-k5HjsCZqaozgFLzI/edit?usp=sharing) for notes
        * Join [https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kubernetes-dev](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kubernetes-dev) or [https://groups.google.com/a/kubernetes.io/forum/#!forum/steering](https://groups.google.com/a/kubernetes.io/forum/#!forum/steering) for edit access.

## November 2, 2020 [Private Meeting]

* Bosun: Derek Carr
* Note Taker:
* Steering Committee Attendees:
    * Bob Killen (@mrbobbytables)
    * Christoph Blecker (@cblecker)
    * Derek Carr (@derekwaynecarr)
    * Davanum Srinivas (@dims)
    * Jordan Liggitt (@liggitt)
    * Nikhita Raghunath (@nikhita)
    * Paris Pittman (@parispittman)
* Topics:
    * **[private]** discuss memoriam for dan k.

## October 26, 2020 [Private Meeting]

* Bosun: Christoph Blecker
* Note Taker:
* Steering Committee Attendees:
    * Bob Killen (@mrbobbytables)
    * Christoph Blecker (@cblecker)
    * Derek Carr (@derekwaynecarr)
    * Davanum Srinivas (@dims)
    * Jordan Liggitt (@liggitt)
    * Nikhita Raghunath (@nikhita)
* Topics:
    * **[private]** Review [backlog](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/projects/40) with new members (from [onboarding checklist](https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues/180))
    * [liggitt] annual report workflow?

## October 19, 2020 [Private Meeting]

* Bosun: Christoph Blecker
* Note Taker: Dims
* Steering Committee Attendees:
    * Bob Killen (@mrbobbytables)
    * Christoph Blecker (@cblecker)
    * Derek Carr (@derekwaynecarr)
    * Davanum Srinivas (@dims)
    * Jordan Liggitt (@liggitt)
    * Nikhita Raghunath (@nikhita)
    * Paris Pittman (@parispittman)
* Topics:
    * **[private]** Review [backlog](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/projects/40) with new members (from [onboarding checklist](https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues/180))
        * Discussion / background / context for new SC members on [term limits](https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues/127).
            * [ACTION] freshen up the PR and merge it in
        * [ACTION] Bosun to set up agenda for next public meeting especially retrospective for the election.
        * WG Annual reports - need to wrap them up.
            * Data protection needs attention
            * [Action] set up issue tracking reports ready for review in order submitted to track completion and prioritize
    * [nikhita] Doodle for new meeting time - [https://doodle.com/poll/yb55wman2r2bqx7n](https://doodle.com/poll/yb55wman2r2bqx7n)
        *  2 west coasters are Paris and Christoph, so trying to do an earlier meeting.
    * [paris/nikhita] Term limits for SC members - [https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/pull/175](https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/pull/175)
    * [nikhita] Documenting process for SIG leadership changes - [https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues/179](https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues/179)
    * [Bob] Password Manager ownership - [https://github.com/kubernetes/community/issues/3938](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/issues/3938)
        * Multiple SIGs have requested some way of securely sharing credentials
        * CNCF recommends keybase at this time, but it’s use for shared credentials is clunky (shared drives with text files)
        * 1password allows any OSS project to use their service for free and looks to be ideal.
            * Security concerns?
            * Requires defining a group of owners - suggesting SC1/SC2/SC3

## October 12, 2020 [Public Meeting]

* Bosun: Christoph Blecker
* Note Taker:
* Steering Committee Attendees:
    * Nikhita Raghunath (@nikhita)
    * Christoph Blecker (@cblecker)
    * Derek Carr (@derekwaynecarr)
    * Paris Pittman (@parispittman)
* Members of the Community:
    * Alison Dowdney
    * Stephen Augustus
    * POP
    * Heba Elayoty (@helayoty)
    * Tabitha Sable
    * Bob Killen
    * Aaron Crickenberger (@spiffxp)
    * Chris Short
    * Jeffrey Sica (@jeefy)
    * Kaslin Fields
    * Carlos Panato
    * Adolfo García Veytia (@puerco)
    * Jordan Liggitt
    * Celeste Horgan
    * Wojtek Tyczynski
    * Lachlan Evenson (@lachie83)
* Topics:
    * Election Results Announcement
    * [nikhita] Scheduling an election retro
    * WG Reliability Charter [Wojtek]
        * [https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/5170](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/5170)
        * Action Items:
            * Add note to special powers section to note that mechanics on merge blocking haven’t been decided, and will involve discussions/consensus with sig-testing and/or sig-release
            * Add note to special powers section that it hasn’t been decided yet (and needs to be with sig-arch) what the scope for blocking is. (should it just be for conformance, or for things enabled by default? just for things in kubernetes/kubernetes?)
            * Wojtek will update PR
    * [paris/nikhita] Term limits for SC members - [https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/pull/175](https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/pull/175)
        * discussed giving new steering members time to get context and voting/closing on this in October 19th meeting

## September 21, 2020 [Private Meeting]

* Bosun: Christoph Blecker
* Artifacts:
    * Note Taker: Lachie Evenson
* Steering Committee Attendees:
    * Aaron Crickenberger (@spiffxp)
    * Nikhita Raghunath (@nikhita)
    * Christoph Blecker (@cblecker)
    * Davanum Srinivas (@dims)
    * Lachlan Evenson (@lachie83)
    * Paris Pittman (@parispittman)
* Topics:
    * **[private]** New chairs in sig-security
    * Aarons last meeting :(

## September 14, 2020 [Public Meeting]

* Bosun: Paris Pittman
* Note Taker: Aaron Crickenberger
* Steering Committee Attendees:
    * Aaron Crickenberger (@spiffxp)
    * Nikhita Raghunath (@nikhita)
    * Christoph Blecker (@cblecker)
    * Derek Carr (@derekwaynecarr)
    * Davanum Srinivas (@dims)
    * Paris Pittman (@parispittman)
* Members of the Community:
    * Jorge Castro
    * Ihor Dvoretskyi
    * Aeva Black
    * Josh Berkus
* Topics:
    * KSC Election [officers?]
        * Ballots go out today, will take 2 days to complete distribution
        * Ballot announcement is tomorrow
        * Would like to schedule a retro with members of steering, maybe during private meeting in october?
        * Project to replace CIVS: https://github.com/kubernetes/community/issues/5096
    * CNCF update
        * [Rotating folks on GB Developer seat](https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues/178)
            * Matt klein (cncf community) and michelle noorali (k8s)
            * Michelle rotating out in december
            * Cra talking about a chair
            * Point is to get our act together by December
            * Decide on a process, don’t have to have explicit instructions, could be vote on a call
            * Don’t want to see a chair for steering committee that does double duty
        * Asking a lot of maintainers
            * Eg meet the maintainers, maintainer ama,
            * High level discussion about reshaping that, maybe a CNCF contributor summit
    * Steering session at KubeCon
        * Most of us seemed +1 to skipping, lachie was against and willing to do leg work of getting session details together
        * Dims if we do more interactivity vs a 1:1 talk
        * Paris what if we teach something or do a retro?
        * Dims: So we want to tell them yes but we’ll figure out what to do with the slot later?
        * Christoph: technically the deadline was yesterday, concerns over taking a slot if we don’t have a plan
        * Vote: aaron dims cblecker -1, nikhita lachie +1, derek paris 0
        * Derek: Don’t think we’ve reflected well enough on this
        * Dims: we would be taking up a slot when other people get rejected
        * Cblecker: if we come up with something I can be swayed
        * Let’s revisit in 24 hours
    * Working Group report wrap up
        * Check in from members -
            * Paris - wg data protection sent to steering-private@, wg security audit is turning down
            * Derek - initiated [process](https://groups.google.com/g/kubernetes-wg-iot-edge/c/ceYk5jpv988/m/6yTVj0-sAwAJ) with iot and edge wg
            * Nikhita - have reached out to wg-k8s-infra leads for filling the doc, will also talk about it in their meeting on Wednesday.
            * Dims - wg-LTS is starting to wind down.
            * Christoph - Component Standard in review. Still need to work with Policy.
            * Aaron - wg-naming too new, wg-machine-learning retiring
            * Lachie - update? Api-expression, multitenancy
            * Prepare to review what we have by next private meeting?
            * Review whether retired workgroups have actually retired by next private meeting
    * Project board walk

## August 31, 2020 [Public Meeting]

* Bosun: Christoph Blecker
* Artifacts:
    * Note Taker: Lahlan Evenson
* Steering Committee Attendees:
    * Aaron Crickenberger (@spiffxp)
    * Nikhita Raghunath (@nikhita)
    * Christoph Blecker (@cblecker)
    * Derek Carr (@derekwaynecarr)
    * Davanum Srinivas (@dims)
    * Lachlan Evenson (@lachie83)
    * Paris Pittman (@parispittman)
* Topics:
    * Kubernetes Steering Election 2020 - Candidate -> Steering Q+A
    * Steering Election candidate attendees
        * Lachlan Evenson
        * Stephen Augustus
        * Divya Mohan
        * Jordan Liggitt
        * Bob Killen
        * Mayank Kumar
        * Federico Bongiovanni
    * Questions
        * What is something you wish you would have been told before starting in the role? (Jordan)
        * What’s something that you had expected to have solved by now? (Stephen)
        * What do you think is the most impactful change in 2020 that steering has made to the community? (Lachlan)
        * What is something you’re proud of? What is something you wish you had done differently? What is something you would have liked to see? (Bob)
        * What is one of the most challenging aspects of the work that is being done/has been done? (Divya)
        * What’s next for the individuals on the steering committee? (Stephen)
        * What is one decision you would change if you could? (Dims)

## August 17, 2020 [Private Meeting]

* Bosun: Paris Pittman
* Artifacts:
    * Note Taker:
* Steering Committee Attendees:
    * Aaron Crickenberger (@spiffxp)
    * Nikhita Raghunath (@nikhita)
    * Christoph Blecker (@cblecker)
    * Derek Carr (@derekwaynecarr)
    * Davanum Srinivas (@dims)
    * Lachlan Evenson (@lachie83)
    * Paris Pittman (@parispittman)
* Topics:
    * **[private]**[cblecker] Kubernetes Podcast discussion [5 mins]
    * **[private]**[nikhita] election stuff [5 mins]
        * Line up retro; steering private and with election officers
    * [nikhita] Should we hold a public SC meeting for Q+A with election candidates on 31st Aug? [&lt;3 mins]
        * Lets get a form for questions so we can get q’s ahead of time; lachie to take AI
            * Include links like governance
            * Keep focus on questions they have
        * August has 5 Mondays, next public meeting is on 7th Sept but candidate bios are due on 8th Sept.
    * [nikhita] SIG Security charter - any pending review thoughts? [5 mins]
        * [https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/4962](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/4962)
        * [paris] do we have what we need to vote?
    * [spiffxp] AMA prep [20-30 mins]
        * [https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1XeIxMnnOltlIX67Jem6DiQUSJWsrI5iXD0JT5vJ3bm8/edit#slide=id.p2](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1XeIxMnnOltlIX67Jem6DiQUSJWsrI5iXD0JT5vJ3bm8/edit#slide=id.p2)
        * Platform usage recording - https://westucs.webex.com/recordingservice/sites/westucs/recording/play/660fbea1ed8a41639088dc23cf75704a
    * [nikhita/paris] Term limits for steering - [https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/pull/175](https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/pull/175)
        * Less than a year - use instead of partial
        * Retro to 1st full 2 year term cycles; bootstrap doesnt count
        * Mailing list vote
        * Look at changes.md
    * [nikhita] slack-infra contractor update - discussed with Bob. We don’t need a contractor for now. Will reach out Priyanka if steering is ok with this.

## August 3, 2020 [Public Meeting]

* Bosun: Nikhita Raghunath
* Artifacts:
    * Note Taker: Lachlan Evenson
* Steering Committee Attendees:
    * ~~Aaron Crickenberger (@spiffxp)~~ (had a schedule conflict)
    * Nikhita Raghunath (@nikhita)
    * Christoph Blecker (@cblecker)
    * Derek Carr (@derekwaynecarr)
    * Davanum Srinivas (@dims)
    * Lachlan Evenson (@lachie83)
    * Paris Pittman (@parispittman)
* Members of the Community present:
    * Jay Beale
    * Joel Smith
    * Seth Jennings
    * Craig Ingram
    * Aaron Small
    * Lubomir Ivanov
    * Tim Allclair
    * Ihor Dvoretskyi
    * Gaurav Singh
* Topics:
    * [cblecker] 2020 election schedule
        * [https://groups.google.com/a/kubernetes.io/g/steering/c/1lRWHGbExe8/m/jLdf6Nr5BwAJ](https://groups.google.com/a/kubernetes.io/g/steering/c/1lRWHGbExe8/m/jLdf6Nr5BwAJ)
            * Compiling list of electors
                * 50 contributions
                * Member of Kubernetes of Kubernetes SIGs orgs in GH
        * [nikhita] Questions on dates:
            * Election Begins: September 11  -> this is a Friday. Can it be a Monday to ensure that it’s on everyone’s radar?
            * Announce Results: October 9 -> this is a Friday. Can it be a SC meeting or community meeting? Oct 5 is a Monday with the public SC meeting. Can we move the dates earlier by a week?
                * Should new member announcements be held at the steering committee meeting (Either 5 or the 19th of October). Could it be moved a week earlier? Or move it a few days ahead to align with steering committee meeting @christoph and nikhita (ended up being October 12th)
                * Should voting open up on a Monday or Tuesday rather than a Friday? Preference for a Tuesday so that inboxes are “cleaner” @christoph
                * [ACTION ITEM] Confirm with election officers to open up voting on a Tuesday and can the results be announced at a public steering meeting
    * [jaybeale] sig-security proposal
        * [https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/4976](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/4976) and
        * [https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/4962/](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/4962/files)
            * Jay Beale presented proposal and shared the problem space and the community interest (see recording)
            * Also add an authoritative endpoint for press and ecosystem to interact with regarding Kubernetes security
            * For historical context, we're folding the wg-security-process proposal into this sig-security proposal: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BnCG_JopFD-XRZKPQjNHrG26G8V6dGC_enCnHw_v5bI/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BnCG_JopFD-XRZKPQjNHrG26G8V6dGC_enCnHw_v5bI/edit) @Tim Allclair
            * Questions
                * Why a new sig versus a subproject of an existing sig? @Derek Carr
                    * A single entrypoint for infosec community members to discover
                * What responsibilities is it taking over from the PSC (or are you saying that those responsibilities weren’t previously held by the PSC? @Derek Carr
                    * PSC would like more involvement from the community eg. guidelines, response times. Current process is based on little feedback and what works for the PSC but would like feedback from community for how the process works and can be made better @Tim Allclair
                    * RE: responsibilities - hand-off might not be the right words as both the SIG and PSC are made up of many of the same folks. Basically everything that needs to be public. PSC is the private forum and SIG Security is the public forum. In the case of an embargoed vulnerability PSC would hand over to SIG Security once the embargo is lifted. @Tim Allclair
                * What were some of the obstacles that you’ve hit so far and how were you able to navigate? @Dims
                * Tangible example - If SIG Security is asked on guidance for deprecating PSP with OPA or Gatekeeper. What’s going to happen? @Dims
                * Is there anyone else in the community that you have engaged with to see how this might affect them? @Christoph
                    * Also had a conversation with contribex and SIG docs which resulted in the crafting of the charter/proposal @Jay Beale
                * What about the CI for the security fork (as it has been neglected)? @Christoph
                    * See an opportunity to build trust via associates and onboarding community members
                * How can we help you? @Dims
            * AI: Steering to review Proposal PR and move toward lgtm
                * [christoph] Sent mail to Josh
    * [nikhita] Adding liaisons for committees - [https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues/170](https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues/170)
    * [nikhita] Should SIGs do annual reports for WGs in 2021?
        * [https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues/172](https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues/172)
    * [paris] how are wg annual reports coming along?
        * Im reviewing data protections and wg sec audit would like to fold into the newly proposed sig
        * Iot edge - will most likely come in september
        * Component standard - sent to steering private
        * Policy - engaged; need to follow up
        * Multi Tenancy - lachie working with them on questions
    * [paris/ihor] cncf update
        * What's going on with the wider cncf community?
            * Discussions of mutil-org requirements in Contribex
            * Governance badging. “Steering committee” yes, “multi-org” yes badges etc…
            * Minikube funding (AWS credits) @Dims.
                * Ihor is tracking it
        * Google funding grant will finish July 2021
        * AI: Steering to follow up on actions with Priyanka
    * [paris] [https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/pull/174](https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/pull/174)- **FYI ONLY**
        * Adding past election officers
        * No review needed; just FYI

## July 27, 2020 [Private Meeting]

* Bosun: Nikhita Raghunath
* Artifacts:
    * Note Taker: Lachlan Evenson
* Steering Committee Attendees:
    * Aaron Crickenberger (@spiffxp)
    * Nikhita Raghunath (@nikhita)
    * Christoph Blecker (@cblecker)
    * Derek Carr (@derekwaynecarr)
    * Davanum Srinivas (@dims)
    * Lachlan Evenson (@lachie83)
    * Paris Pittman (@parispittman)
* Topics:
    * [**private**][nikhita] k3s meeting with the CNCF TOC
    * [**private**][nikhita] CoCC election next steps
    * [nikhita] KubeCon slides due next week (Aug 4th)
        * [https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues/154#issuecomment-652567722](https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues/154#issuecomment-652567722)
        * AI: Lachie to create slides
    * [nikhita] SC election - deciding criteria for members of standing
        * Suggestion from Bob and Jorge - >= 50 contributions on devstats AND a kubernetes/k-sigs/k-csi/k-client github org member
        * SC came to consensus via voting in the meeting
    * [nikhita] Reminder to follow up on your AIs from our meeting with Priyanka :)
    * [nikhita] Adding liaisons for committees - [https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues/170](https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues/170)
        * To be discussed in the next meeting
    * [nikhita] Should SIGs do annual reports for WGs in 2021?
        * [https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues/172](https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues/172)
        * To be discussed in the next meeting

## July 6, 2020 [Public Meeting]

* Bosun: Lachlan Evenson
* Artifacts:
    * Note Taker:
* Steering Committee Attendees:
    * Lachlan Evenson (@lachie83)
    * Aaron Crickenberger (@spiffxp)
    * Paris Pittman (@paris)
    * Nikhita Raghunath (@nikhita)
    * Dims (@dims)
    * Davanum Srinivas (@dims)
* Members of the Community present:
    * Ihor Dvoretskyi (CNCF)
    * Nilson Ferreira (@nfsouzaj)
    * Florin Moraru (@klusht)
* Topics:
    * [cblecker] Election officers for 2020 have been nominated
        * [https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues/161#issuecomment-650314364](https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues/161#issuecomment-650314364)
        * Call vote to ratify these
    * [lachie83]
        * Organize Code of Conduct Committee Elections for seats ending Aug 7, 2020 (3)
        * [https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/committee-code-of-conduct#term-ends-on-august-7-2020](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/committee-code-of-conduct#term-ends-on-august-7-2020)
        * [https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/committee-code-of-conduct/election.md](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/committee-code-of-conduct/election.md)
        * [paris] [https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues/169](https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues/169)
        * Discuss how we nominate candidates
        * Nikhita: how have we done it in the past?
            * Where do the nominations go?
            * We used a Google form in the past
            * Michelle sent the results from the form to steering-private@
        * Christoph: Okay to open up the nominations.
        * Paris: should we invite cocc to next private meeting?
        * Christoph: concern is timeline
        * Nikhita: could we do this as a one off? Lachie: do this with a subgroup?
        * Paris and Lachie will pick this up and consult with CoCC, bring back to group and proceed
        * Paris: do a PR to correct the process to allow nomination from more than [leads@kubernetes.io](mailto:leads@kubernetes.io)?
        * No change to eligibility for voting
    * [nikhita] Request for gsuite groups (from jorge and bob):
        * [calendar@kubernetes.io](mailto:calendar@kubernetes.io)  - [https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues/166](https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues/166)
            * What we use right now is this super random string that corresponds to a shared calendar
            * Anyone anywhere on the internet can invite this shared calendar
            * So we want to have a more constrained calendar that could be invited
            * Can’t use contributors@ because it has elevated access
        * [sig-foo-leads@kubernetes.io](mailto:sig-foo-leads@kubernetes.io) - issue yet to be created, wanted quick feedback first
            * In the past we’ve tried not to create too many gsuite accounts
            * A bunch of the leads mailing lists have gotten stale and we can’t access them
            * So what if we used a gsuite account for each of these
            * Nikhita created a PR to start sharding up groups.yaml file
        * Meta point:
            * Steering doesn’t need to be involved with these sorts of decisions
            * Steering needs to be pinged for primary account creation but not much else
            * Nikhita will take up documenting this policy going forward
    * [nikhita] Please review [https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/4874](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/4874)
        * Updates policy for community groups update from quarterly to once a year, matches current reality
        * Paris: One community meeting update, one k-dev update, one annual report update
        * Aaron: Concern over doing three different things vs. the same thing N different times, feels like more work? Will just send a slide deck to k-dev vs. presenting it at community
    * [nikhita] Assigning a SC liaison for WG Naming
        * [https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/pull/168](https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/pull/168)
        * Aaron: I will take this
    * [nikhita] Time to kick off Annual Reports?
        * [paris] kdev email needs to go out and be shaped [https://hackmd.io/jpZOM7RJRJOTPsxDsHmS_Q](https://hackmd.io/jpZOM7RJRJOTPsxDsHmS_Q) - need this reviewed by steering
        * [paris] [https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/4874](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/4874) - this is kind of dependant on the sig process and official annual reports kicking off
            * Jorge and I worked on a loose schedule [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1adztrJ05mQ_cjatYSnvyiy85KjuI6-GuXsRsP-T2R3k/edit?pli=1#gid=932627810](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1adztrJ05mQ_cjatYSnvyiy85KjuI6-GuXsRsP-T2R3k/edit?pli=1#gid=932627810)
            *  Tldr - there is current community debt here with folks doing double work so want to make a smooth schedule that takes into account the new annual report requirement
        * [paris] [https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/4902](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/4902) - wg process PR needs approval - need this reviewed by steering
    * [nikhita] Route the “Kubernetes starter kit for Openstack” email to sig-arch for review?
        * [https://groups.google.com/a/kubernetes.io/g/steering/c/VGjECFmk-cQ](https://groups.google.com/a/kubernetes.io/g/steering/c/VGjECFmk-cQ)
        * Dims: +1 route to sig arch, would also be good to chat but that’s a side issue
        * Dims: probably should check in with cluster api provider and cloud provider subprojects
        * Dims: will handle replying to this e-mail and cc’ing in the appropriate SIGs
    * [nikhita] FYI the CNCF TOC has a new proposal for "Steering Committee Charters" for CNCF Projects.
        * toc email thread - [https://lists.cncf.io/g/cncf-toc/message/4893](https://lists.cncf.io/g/cncf-toc/message/4893)
        * proposal - [https://docs.google.com/document/d/11Hiz1dGYRS7GcjedpRVnSlDjIj0AVjeTa0-Td7aW-Lk/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11Hiz1dGYRS7GcjedpRVnSlDjIj0AVjeTa0-Td7aW-Lk/edit)
        * Nikhita: would be good to take a look at this if you’re interested
        * [paris] can we have a cncf update/discussion section for every steering meeting?
        * aaron: given that paris is part of the Contributor Strategy SIG and is involved over there, make sense for paris to lead this?
        * Paris: eg: conversation around criteria for sandbox/incubating/graduating
        * Dims: doc dims saw was more from alexis rather than a statement from the TOC?
        * Dims: how much do we need to pay attention to this?
        * Christoph: good to have an ear to the ground for what’s coming from the CNCF, eg. what helpful stuff could we adopt, could be knowledge that we have to contribute back as the first graduated project, seems like pace of things is picking up to the point where I’m having trouble keeping up
        * Dims: one issue I have is that we haven’t heard back on things that we were looped in on
        * Paris: think this is a comms problem between us and cncf, now that I am active/engaged in cncf community have definitely seen there is a lack of communication between projects, we can’t see outside of the bubble, outside of the bubble is growing a lot
        * Paris: adding dedicated time to this meeting would help engage our community with that
        * Christoph: michelle was our toc liason (is?) and we’re missing some of that
        * Dims: so should we be asking our toc liason to show up here? From the toc side there is supposed to be a person, let’s see if we can get that conversation going through our representative; for the GB, we have Lachlan, and we have Ihor
        * Christoph: regardless think the idea of having a standing agenda item for CNCF would be beneficial
        * Dims: it’s just that we usually have a packed agenda, if there’s nothing specific to talk about, we may fill it up… if there’s nothing actionable, does it need to be on the agenda?
        * Lachlan: summary paris is going to be responsible at this point for having a place to give updates on happenings at CNCF, due to her role as SIG Contrib Strat chair, if there’s nothing in the agenda, then we’re not going to use it… will give 5-10min slot
        * Lachlan: will update bosun policy to include this (will try to break it up into 9 commits and 8 rebases)
    * [nikhita] Follow up from previous meeting, what do we think about “Unconscious bias training for SIG chairs/leads”?
        * [https://github.com/kubernetes/community/issues/3724](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/issues/3724)
        * [https://github.com/kubernetes/community/issues/3662](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/issues/3662)
        * Is pushing deadline of end of year for existing leads too long?
        * Dims: I’m fine saying we should just mandate and see what comes of it? I mean do we have sticks or carrots in this regard?
        * Christoph: supportive if we have more ideas to be creative, but at very least this is a step in the right direction, would suggest shorter than end of year
        * Aaron: your sig can’t land enhancements in 1.20 unless your leads have taken the training?
        * Christoph: 45 days? 90 days sounds too long, 30 minutes is not a lot
        * Dims: tie to a date, eg: 1.19 release date, or kubecon?
        * Christoph: now there’s crunch time competition
        * Lachlan: what if we had sigs add a badge or something?
        * Dims: what if had a branded facemask for taking it
        * Lachlan: to wrap a bow, what are the actions we need to take, who’s going to own them
        * Nikhita: have concerns around shipping swag for training, something people should take, not just because swag
        * Aaron: use chairs/tech-leads meeting to roll out, check in?
        * Christoph: send e-mail to [leads@kubernetes.io](mailto:leads@kubernetes.io)? Christoph can take on writing e-mail to roll this out if someone else can evangelize at meeting
        * Nikhita: track using umbrella issue? General thumbs up to this

## June 15, 2020 [Private Meeting]

* Bosun: Lachlan Evenson
* Artifacts:
    * Note Taker: Christoph Blecker
* Steering Committee Attendees:
    * Lachlan Evenson
    * Dims
    * Nikhita Raghunath
    * Christoph Blecker (@cblecker)
* Apologies
    * Derek Carr
* Members of the Community present:
    * N/A
* Topics:
    * [lachie] KubeCon EU AMA session - 5:10pm CEST (8:10am US Pacific) Wednesday, August 19
        * Training from Nanci on the virtual platform
        * 2-3 slides to introduce the committee and what we do. Lachie on point for slides.
    * [lachie] SC Group liaisons update (Lachie)
        * [christoph] The assignments need to be PRd somewhere - sigs.yaml?
            * [Dims] keep in separate for now
            * [Christoph] Will place it in the steering repo for now
    * [lachie] The way we discuss control plane members - [ML link](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!msg/kubernetes-sig-cluster-lifecycle/IjN_9n0KEUg/k-4abo19AgAJ)
        * [lachie] Do we as steering need to do anything here?
        * [lachie] Should we have common, standard language across the project?
        * [dims] APIs and code will need to go through sig arch
        * [christoph] explicitly not steering’s call to make technical decisions
        * [christoph] sig-arch meeting on thursday to discuss it
        * [christoph] talk of new working group being formed to tackle
        * [lachie] sig arch responsible for documentation? Where would they locate it?
        * [paris] ready to make this happen. Will take steering hat off, and attend sig-arch, new working group
        * [dims] we need to know where to actually make changes
        * [christoph] may not be a straight find/replace.. May need input from SMEs in sig arch type setting
    * [nikhita] Did we finalize how we want to proceed with the kubernetes.io Twitter account?
        * [nikhita] 2 contribex folks and 2 steering members
        * [paris] contributor marketing team in contribex will be eventual owner
        * [lachie] steering will be a moderating function
        * Paris will send list of folks to the CNCF
    * [nikhita] Unconscious bias training for SIG chairs/leads?
        * [https://github.com/kubernetes/community/issues/3724](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/issues/3724)
        * [https://github.com/kubernetes/community/issues/3662](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/issues/3662)
        * [nikhita] should we look at actually rolling this out (either the LF free online course, or the more in-depth Sage Sharp course)
        * [christoph] LF unconscious bias training is free and takes about 30 minutes. Sage Sharp course is more of a commitment
        * [dims] Concerns about making this another forced commitment when folks are busy and stretched thin
        * [nikhita] Do we make this mandatory within 30 days for new chairs/TLs, but then give existing leads to the end of the year?
        * [christoph] This is exactly the time to do this. Important for leaders in all the sigs to have that super basic baseline knowledge
        * [lachie] should we shorten the timeline? Folks will probably wait till the deadline to do anyways
        * [dims] can we be more creative in how we roll this out?
    * [paris] implementation of working group annual reports
        * We’ve got our working group assignments - now what? Are we going to one of their meetings? Are we setting up time with their organizers?
            * Go to their meetings, introduce yourself, describe why you are there (better communication and annual report)
            * [paris] will share template with team
            * [nikhita] Are we going to go 30 days from the time you attend the meeting
            * [Dims] Do we need to roll this out via the community meeting or mailing list
            * [paris] k-dev e-mail
            * [christoph] Re: 30 day timeline is not strict. Frame it as, 30 days but if you need longer let us know.
            * [paris] New issues in steering repo to follow up on any questions regarding healthcheck process
    * Walk through [project board](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/projects/40)

## June 1, 2020 [Public Meeting]

* Bosun: Nikhita Raghunath
* Artifacts:
    * Note Taker: Aaron Crickenberger
* Steering Committee Attendees:
    * Aaron Crickenberger (@spiffxp)
    * Nikhita Raghunath (@nikhita)
    * Christoph Blecker (@cblecker)
    * Derek Carr (@derekwaynecarr)
    * Davanum Srinivas (@dims)
    * Lachlan Evenson (@lachie83)
    * Paris Pittman (@parispittman)
* Members of the Community present:
    *
* Topics:
    * Steering Election Officers for 2020 Election (@lachie83) - [issues/161](https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues/161)
        * Need to build the team of election officers
        * Looking to expand the pool of election officers and would like to consider existing steering members
        * Document existing members in the policy doc
        * Lachie: had a convo with christoph about this, would like to re-run for the upcoming election, so cannot volunteer for election officer
        * Christoph: typically the mechanics of running the election, what is needed from us
        * Ihor: jorge, mrbobbytables and ihor were officers last year; typically one person steps down, and one new person steps in for rotation purposes
        * lachie: could ask former / retiring steering members?
        * spiffxp: technically we don’t have to choose officers until end of july
        * cblecker: since I’m sitting through this election I can volunteer as an election officer
        * Paris: shouldn’t this be done through contribex? Policy langauge should be changed to say contribex brings candidates to steering by july 1
        * cblecker: I will take care of executing policy for the current election cycle
        * Nikhita: updating criteria for members of standing?
        * Cblecker: do we want to put member of standing criteria in contribex’s hands?
        * Nikhita: if we update the member of standing criteria to be a little more strict, it would be easier, and it might make less work for election officers?
        * Aaron: nikhita and I will follow up with mrbobbytables on election criteria for next meeting
    * Funding (@dims):
        * CNCF already budgeted for kubernetes audit (DONE)
        * Minikube request for AWS credits
        * Digital Ocean credits for cluster-provider-do (DONE)
        * Dims: chris and ihor helped line up DO credits, ihor confirms receipt of first DO invoice
        * Dims: audit is already budgeted for (same amount as last time) it’s now up to audit wg to select and execute
        * Dims: minikube wants to do something different because of testing they need to do on windows, they need AWS credits
        * Ihor: I have a few questions
        * Dims: this isn’t for general testing, this is for specific testing, only a few scenarios on AWS, on windows; we can’t use prow and we can’t use other providers
        * Ihor: to clarify why questions, we have a good number of AWS credits but they are limited, so we could also offer bare metal
        * Dims: typically asks why the current options don’t work
        * Aaron: why not prow?
        * Dims: want to use their existing harness, aren’t starting from scratch, want a pull vs push mechanism
        * Dims: will file service desk ticket and work with ihor from there
    * Other
        * Dims: thanks to dan kohn, welcome to priyanka on cncf
        * Paris: wanted to talk about steering committee liasons with community groups to potentially roll out community group reporting for just the working groups
    * Walk through [project board](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/projects/40)
        * [https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/4755](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/4755) - aaron to draft PR against sig-arch to own upgrade/downgrade policy
        * Paris: Are community group liasons required for us to move on working group reports? How should we launch for working group report?
        * Paris: some other open ended questions around timeline and such
        * Aaron: asking for google doc template of questions I will have to answer as working group organizer
        * Derek: trying to think through the fact that sigs own code and working groups don’t, are there any outliers
        * Dims: k8s-infra and multi-tenancy wg both have repositories
        * Derek: not sure how much bi-directional reporting is done (dims agress this definitely needs to be addressed)
        * Paris: How long do we give? 30 days? 60, 90?
        * General sentiment that people will wait until the last minute regardless of the amount of time
        * Derek: it’s easy to mistake that members of a wg have this as their dominant activity when it could be their 10%
        * Paris: steering liasons could help out as well
        * General consensus that 30 days is enough, from the time the liason presents the doc
        * Paris: I will type this up and PR this in
        * Aaron: stagger this? Do this all at once? Concerns of handling 10 WG responses at once
        * Dims: we say 4 weeks, this is probably going to take 6 weeks
        * Nikhita: timeline for when we start reaching out? Ready to launch by next committee meeting?
        * Dims: so what do we do with all of these as a body?
        * Paris: consider having these submitted as a PR after review? Into their directory in community? Talk through in chairs and tech leads meeting in august?
        * Dims: thinking of a return from us that reflects the health in aggregate? Maybe a blog post?
        * Paris: still seems like we’re lacking an answer to what we need to effectively coach but we can try to use this as an experience to learn from
        * Kubecon EU?
            * Cblecker: seems like it’s less useful to do this virtually, because we already have a lot of virtual spaces where people are free to ask us
            * Lachie: thinks this would be more like a CNCF webinar where we would moderate chat while a prerecorded session is happening
            * Paris: thinks Chris A did this for TOC and it went well, a brief intro
            * Lachie: I’m happy to do this in the context of we’re gonna have to find out what the virtual platform is sooner than later
            * Nikhita: +1 and can help lachie
        * Community groups
            * Cblecker: have a spreadsheet we’ll run through
            * Paris: should we choose groups we’re active in? Not active in?
            * Derek: what if we just randomize? (general consent)
            * Cblecker: may need to resolve SIGs with overlapping meetings
    * Next bosun
        * Lachie

## May 18, 2020 [Private Meeting]

* Bosun: Nikhita Raghunath
* Artifacts:
    * Note Taker:
* Steering Committee Attendees:
    * Aaron Crickenberger (@spiffxp)
    * Nikhita Raghunath (@nikhita)
    * Christoph Blecker (@cblecker)
    * Derek Carr (@derekwaynecarr)
    * Davanum Srinivas (@dims)
    * Lachlan Evenson (@lachie83)
    * Paris Pittman (@parispittman)
* Members of the Community present:
    * N/A
* Topics:
    * Steering Election Officers for 2020 Election (@lachie83) - [issues/161](https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues/161)
        * Need to build the team of election officers
        * Looking to expand the pool of election officers and would like to consider existing steering members
        * Document existing members in the policy doc
        * [nikhita]: moved to next meeting due to lack of time for discussing it
    * K3s inclusion into CNCF sandbox (lachie83) - [https://github.com/cncf/toc/pull/447](https://github.com/cncf/toc/pull/447)

## May 4, 2020 [Public Meeting]

* Bosun: Nikhita Raghunath
* Artifacts:
    * Note Taker: Lachlan Evenson
* Steering Committee Attendees:
    * Aaron Crickenberger (@spiffxp)
    * Nikhita Raghunath (@nikhita)
    * Christoph Blecker (@cblecker)
    * Derek Carr (@derekwaynecarr)
    * Davanum Srinivas (@dims)
    * Lachlan Evenson (@lachie83)
    * Paris Pittman (@parispittman)
* Members of the Community present:
    * Ihor (CNCF)
* Topics:
    * Welcome Lachie!!! (first public SC meeting!!)
    * [nikhita] Community Health check updates from breakout discussion
        * Steering WG met last week to discuss:
            * Concerns about making another meeting/survey/form. We would like to lead with what the leads/chairs get out of this (the value).
            * Provide opportunity for lead/chair coaching.
            * Discussed the idea of this becoming part of an annual report for SIGs.
            * Also discussed private items between chairs/leads with steering. Paris has updated the PR that private items will be added to a single report. Current PR language is one report. Need consensus across steering.
                * Christoph mentioned that we could potentially use the liaison in addition to the single report.
    * [nikhita] [Community health check PR](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/4687) **<span style="text-decoration:underline;">(needs review)</span>**
        * Thanks Paris!!
            * Outstanding question on how we do 2020 reports or wait until 2021.
                * Suggestion: making this optional in 2020 to test the process (Dims)
                * Suggestion: Make the WGs required first to get a pulse (Paris)
                * Concern about the waiting to get the pulse and potentially provide a longer time to get the response (Christoph)
                * Suggestion: SIG liaison to work on the report with the WG together to see if it’s possible. (Paris)
                * Concerns regarding scaling
            * RECAP
                * Mandatory for WGs
                * SIGs can optionally submit reports
                * SIG liaisons will be appointed
    * [cblecker] [Steering liaison to SIGs](https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues/159)
        * Point-of-contact to facilitate communication
        * Last time steering committee liaisons were appointed for SIG/WG charters
        * Also help be an extra set of eyes in the case that chairs are also steering members
        * Is this active/passive
            * Active - specific work
            * Passive - questions, coaching, when asked
        * Where should it go?
        * Communication out to SIGs/WGs
        * Assignments
            * If you have one sig, you should take their wgs too - that could make it easier
    * [Updates on DO account for e2e testing](https://github.com/kubernetes/funding/issues/9)
        * [nikhita] Dims has [created](https://github.com/kubernetes/funding/issues/9#issuecomment-622614406) the service desk ticket, CNCF said that they’ll talk to DO and come back with a response by EOW.
            * [Ihor] We’ve started discussing this question with DO, please expect an update from us later.
            * CNCF happy to cover in the case that there isn’t DO credits [Ihor]
    * [paris] [Defining and scoping the term “member”](https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues/160)
        * Aim to get a canonical definition of the term “member”
        * Membership is often scoped for the purpose ot the document that it’s in
        * Elections gets a dump from devstats with a GH handle with 50+ contributions in the last year
            * The 50+ contributions number comes from steering
            * Members of standing
        * How many voters? (Bob Killen)
            * Last election numbers: 879 of 602 were org members (277 were not)
            * 377 of the pool voted
            * 211 of those weren’t following k/dev ML
        * Detach community member for Github org membership
        * Lead verbiage change will be PRd to the handbook
            *
    * [Chair role handbook PR](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/4716) **<span style="text-decoration:underline;">(needs review)</span>**
    * [SIG Cluster Lifecycle charter changes](https://groups.google.com/a/kubernetes.io/forum/#!topic/steering/fBcF3puFEkI) **<span style="text-decoration:underline;">(needs review)</span>**
    * [dims/ihor] [Travel sponsorship discussion](https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/pull/114)
        * Issue can be closed. Dims will connect with Ihor offline
    * [nikhita] [Discussion topics meta issue](https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues/51)
        * Can we close this? It isn’t particularly actionable. Folks can reopen with granular issues if there are specific concerns.
        * These may be important however they are not urgent so we’re not going to deal with them now
    * Walk through [project board](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/projects/40)
    * Choose next bosun
        * nikhita

## April 27, 2020 [discussion session]

Notes:
* What’s it in for chairs? What happens if there is no update? Lead with the advantages
    * What can we as steering list as things that we can help with?
* How can we help them scale?
    * Help with advising on roles; could we provide coaching? privately?
* Should we call it something like ‘the annual report for your community group’
    * We can take this seriously
    * Build trust

## April 20, 2020 [Private Meeting]

* Bosun: Aaron Crickenberger
* Artifacts:
    * Note Taker: Christoph
* Steering Committee Attendees:
    * Aaron Crickenberger (@spiffxp)
    * Nikhita Raghunath (@nikhita)
    * Christoph Blecker (@cblecker)
    * Derek Carr (@derekwaynecarr)
    * Davanum Srinivas (@dims)
    * Lachlan Evenson (@lachie83)
    * Paris Pittman (@parispittman)
* Members of the Community present:
    * N/A
* Topics:
    * Invite CoCC to next private meeting (5/18) for check in with Steering
    * Welcome, Lachie!!!
    * [Community Health Check / Roll Call](https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues/153) - paris
        * WIP PR: [https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/4687](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/4687)
        * Open questions
            * What is the timeline for 2020?
            * Where do the SIGs give their reports/follow up discussions?
            * What is the process for Steering review of healthcheck?
            * What format do we accept the reports in?
            * Do we follow the 4-week process in changes.md?
        * Breakout discussion with Paris/Christoph/Dims/Lachie
    * [Appropriate use of upstream marketing twitter for KEPs](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/issues/4516) - paris
        * Nikhita has a comment and it will be merged in
    * [DigitalOcean account for e2e testing](https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues/156) - cblecker
        * Need to get instance sizing information from Marko, and then can open up service desk ticket
    * [Kubernetes.io gsuite account for billing reports](https://github.com/kubernetes/k8s.io/issues/509) - nikhita
        * From wg-k8s-infra [meeting on 1 April 2020](https://docs.google.com/document/d/16VBfsFMynA7tObzuZGPpw-sKDKfFc_T5W_E4IeEIaOQ/edit#heading=h.3dxstksmwe59), there was an ask for a kubernetes.io gsuite account for managing billing report access. We would need a gsuite account to act as an owner, google groups can’t own docs.
        * Steering is okay with moving ahead with this.
    * [Kubernetes.io gsuite account for sig chairs/TLs group](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/issues/4673) - nikhita
        * Steering is okay with moving ahead with this.
        * wg-k8s-infra needs to look at changes for long term sustainability as we add new lists to the k8s.io gsuite
    * [Adding “point of contact” for subprojects in sigs.yaml](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/issues/4445) - nikhita
        * What is the difference between this and subproject owners?
        * Should we just import the subproject owners?
        * We should go back to the originator and get more details on the original ask
    * [Prune/shuffle projects under kubernetes org](https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues/136) - nikhita
        * What input do we need from steering here? Can GitHub Admin Team start tackling this?
    * Choose next Bosun
        * Nikhita will do this

## April 6, 2020 [Public Meeting]

* Bosun: Aaron Crickenberger
* Artifacts:
    * Note Taker: Aaron Crickenberger
* Steering Committee Attendees:
    * Aaron Crickenberger (@spiffxp)
    * Nikhita Raghunath (@nikhita)
    * Paris Pittman (@parispittman)
    * Christoph Blecker (@cblecker)
    * Derek Carr (@derekwaynecarr)
    * Davanum Srinivas (@dims)
    * Tim St. Clair (@timothysc)
* Members of the Community present:
    * Ihor Dvoretskyi (CNCF)
    * Josh Berkus
    * Rémy Léone (Scaleway)
    * Bob Killen (University of Michigan)
    * Tim Pepper
* Topics:
    * [Nikhita/Remy] [Contributor Bill of Rights issue](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/issues/4617)
        * Also [https://github.com/kubernetes/community/issues/4615](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/issues/4615)
        * [remy] Wants it to be very clear what a new contributor can expect
        * [remy] Trying to think about what are the different rights, the CLA seems to make things very explicit, why don’t we have that kind of language for contributor’s rights
        * [paris] [https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/guide/expectations.md](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/guide/expectations.md)
            * Can this be more explicit? And maybe linked “higher” in the contributor guide?
            * [https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/community-membership.md#responsibilities-and-privileges-1](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/community-membership.md#responsibilities-and-privileges-1)
                * “Expected to be responsive to review requests as per [community expectations](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/guide/expectations.md)”
        * [dims] this relates to roles and responsibilities of people in OWNERS files and the enforcement of them being adhered to
        * [derek] is there an example of an existing community that is doing this well?
            * [remy] c4 is an example [https://rfc.zeromq.org/spec/42/](https://rfc.zeromq.org/spec/42/); Contributions are accepted right away, but community may revert
            * [remy] Not saying this is the right fit for the kubernetes project
            * [derek] What is contribution in this context? There is more than code
            * [dims] Apache does commit-then-review, there is a spectrum, but we’ve always followed review-then-commit for a variety of reasons here
        * [remy] Not asking for extra rights, just want to bootstrap effort of what a contributor can expect at every level of their engagement.  Could be a very minimal set of rights. Want to lay bare minimum of what a contributor can expect (in all sigs?)
    * [Paris] [K8s Contributor Twitter Account](https://groups.google.com/a/kubernetes.io/forum/#!topic/steering/Rdf82UV9D84)
        * [https://github.com/kubernetes/community/issues/4516](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/issues/4516)
        * Are we OK with: sig-contribex owning the operation and guidelines of this twitter account under the community-management subproject and
        * Are we OK with: this account being under one of the controlled gsuite accounts and not an individual's email
        * [tim] what is scope of this?
            * [paris] solely contributors, not end-users, not anything that would show on kubernetesio twitter account
            * [tim] concern over vendors attempting to monetize etc.
            * [paris] made sure to include ethos inside [https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/communication/marketing-team/social-guidelines.md](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/communication/marketing-team/social-guidelines.md)
            * [paris] goal is to aid flow of information, tell stories based on what we do
        * [derek] worry about twitter being used as a bully pulpit for KEPs
            * [paris] eg: when we need more feedback / larger feedback on KEPs
            * [derek] concern about being used to raise / resolve disagreement within KEPs
            * [bob] eg: think user feedback on things that are alpha
        * [dims] just for KEPs maybe let’s do it only when they’ve been approved
            * If the author asks for feedback, we should talk to the people who have been assigned as approvers to the KEP to confirm if that’s OK
        * [paris] created a contributor-comms label so people can flag us on things
    * [Aaron] [Retire Resource Management](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/issues/4157)
        * [https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/wg-resource-management](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/wg-resource-management)
    * [Christoph] Confirm closure of [unconscious bias training](https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues/132) issue
    * [Christoph] Request for [DO account for e2e testing](https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues/156)
        * [Ihor] CNCF doesn’t have the credits agreement with DO yet. Please raise the request via the CNCF ServiceDesk with the approximate credits budget and we’ll proceed with the negotiations further.
        * AI: christoph to create service desk ticket
    * [Aaron] [Create WG API Expression](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/4655)
        * AI: aaron to send PR to steering mailing list, call for vote
    * [Paris] [Community Health Check / Roll Call](https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues/153)
        * [https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/4687/files](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/4687/files)
        * [dims] how do we know the membership of a given sig?
        * [dims] the way it works in apache, anyone in the sig could respond to this, whereas here we’re tacking on additional work to the chair role, work that chairs haven’t had to historically do
        * [dims] would like to strengthen what it means to be a part of a given SIG
        * [dims] eg: people who are part of the kubernetes org now feel a part of the kubernetes community, could we do something similar for sigs?
        * [paris] do you want us to ask the chairs how they are explicitly measuring membership? Should we mandate membership?
        * [dims] ask leads what they would like in terms of support from us (paris: we have three questions related to this)
        * [tim] I would reverse some of this, the order of the asks are less supportive and more dictatorial when youre reading them. I understand the purpose and intent, but what are we really trying to do here, what’s the endgame. How can we better serve them
        * [paris] I have a lot of the why etc. not in this PR
        * [tim] reality is everyone who is in a chair role today is in a similar position of struggling to scale and handle all existing responsibilities, they are looking for help but don’t know how/where/why
        * [tim] think it’s import we outline intent before getting to questions
        * [christoph] at least half of the intent is to know whether people are there / alive, be a little more process oriented, are you healthy are you meeting, directed at the chairs
    * [Group] Who is the next bosun?
        * Aaron: to PR in changes to the guide

## March 16, 2020 [Private Meeting]

* Bosun: Christoph Blecker
* Artifacts:
    * Note Taker: Christoph Blecker
* Steering Committee Attendees:
    * Christoph Blecker
    * Paris Pittman
    * Aaron Crickenberger
    * Davanum Srinivas
    * Nikhita Raghunath
* Members of the Community present:
    * N/A
* Topics:
    * KEP for [third-party and dual-sourced content](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/1327#issuecomment-582164066)
    * [Bosun Guide and Script](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1u6quWaMm1nRXJERlerZI8DcveBI0bpBx4bXORUOLHtE/edit)
        * Aaron to be next bosun
    * sig-autoscaling chair responsiveness
    * [Roll call issue](https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues/153)

## March 2, 2020 [Public Meeting]

* Bosun: Paris Pittman
* Artifacts:
    * Note Taker:
* Steering Committee Attendees:
    * Christoph Blecker
    * Paris Pittman
    * Aaron Crickenberger
    * Tim St. Clair
    * Nikhita Raghunath
* Members of the Community present:
    * Jeffrey Sica
    * Bob Killen
    * Mo Khan
* Topics:
    * [Zach C.] KEP for [third-party and dual-sourced content](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/1327#issuecomment-582164066) //[note from paris: need to check with Zach if this topic is still good] 10 mins
        * How does “implementable” apply to docs?
        * How should we resolve author/reviewer/editor TBDs?
        * What’s necessary to move this KEP forward?
        * Sig arch should be approvers; reviewers and approvers can be the same [spiffxp]
        * [christoph] agrees with aaron
        * [christoph] sig arch should be involved with ambiguous project wide decision; take the lead on what sig-docs is recommending
        * [zach] kep template says that reviewers need to be a different pool
        * [tim sc] must have been a change; not many pools of people
        * [aaron] want to make sure we move forward with this
        * [zach]
    * Steering @ KubeCon updates? 10 mins
        * Christoph is the only maybe
        * Reach out to nanci to cancel - paris to reach out
        * Contributor summit lead (jeff): possible virtual event
            * Is there a deadline for decisions?
            * [proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1FH24lkoLS0mQcXNhYbk08L9qXzjrCaVgnCGwGSirGmc/edit#heading=h.jf1xvu7twvpn)
    * Community Group Health Check 10 mins
        * Work through this more for 10 mins
    * Continue to go through backlog 15 mins
        * [https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues](https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues)
        * Take to chairs and leads meeting - staffing gaps
        * Look at onboarding check list - paris
    * Community Q&A:

## February 3, 2020 [Public Meeting]

* Bosun: Christoph
* Artifacts:
    * Note Taker: Paris
* Steering Committee Attendees:
    * Paris Pittman
    * Christoph Blecker
    * Tim St. Clair
    * Derek Carr
    * Nikhita Raghunath
    * Davanum Srinivas
* Members of the Community present:
    *
* Topics
    * Steering Panel for Amsterdam [cblecker]
        * Panel is set. 5 of 7 steering members expected.
        * Schedule may change, as there is a conflict with another session that cblecker/nikhita are doing
        * File an issue for the slides (about us) so that we can tee up the panel and questions
            * [https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues/154](https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues/154)
    * [nikhita] Revisit User Groups as a part of the Kubernetes community. Can they move to [CNCF user groups](https://github.com/cncf/enduser-public#end-user-sigs-and-user-groups)?
        * What was the reason that this was created as part of our structure vs cncf?
        * Timsc: cloud provider sigs ended up being a user forum group and not a contributor one
        * Derek: there were sigs that didnt own code and seems like it makes sense to do user groups for those
        * Dims: do we know if they are making progress? Are they active?
        * Timsc: there is a fair amount of cloud provider stuff that is active
        * Timsc: broad update where everyone is at (user groups)
        * Nikhita: can take that as an action to check
        * Christoph: this is where a check in could help
        * Christoph: steering should explicitly say yes once the proposal is in.
        * Derek: doesn’t like lazy consensus for the formation of this either. Doesn’t know where the boundaries would be.
        * Steve wong: there were a lot of users in the cloud provider groups; likely to see more user groups
        * Paris: maybe cheryl with cncf can help us figure out a solution here
        * Christoph: whether thats housed in cncf or ours, we need to define that light touch (maybe could tie in kubecon maintainer track)
        * Derek: are there working groups that don’t have an end state? Lets audit them. Have cncf look into this too. Look into the health check, too, and come up with the questions to ask.
        * Christoph: +1 to what derek is saying; focus on working groups and user groups first with audit
        * A Working Group status resource is the updates delivered in the community meeting. Calendar for 2019 is [here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1adztrJ05mQ_cjatYSnvyiy85KjuI6-GuXsRsP-T2R3k/edit#gid=1543199895): An example of such a status report is [here](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Ozby628UmK91fGOoo_10YDSRJ0BVlUIx-YAF4iwlyOA/edit#slide=id.g62d1d3d748_0_7)
        * Ihor: groups were designed for end-user member companies @ cncf
            * [https://github.com/cncf/enduser-public#cncf-end-user-community](https://github.com/cncf/enduser-public#cncf-end-user-community) https://github.com/cncf/toc/issues
            * [https://github.com/cncf/toc#sigs](https://github.com/cncf/toc#sigs)
            * [https://github.com/cncf/toc/pulls](https://github.com/cncf/toc/pulls)
        * Derek: wants to find out more about sigs at cncf level and other groups; doesn’t have the facts
        * Derek: follow up on 153 - need volunteers to see to completion
        * Paris and derek to collaborate on questionnaire
    * Go through backlog - 21 issues
        * [https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues](https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues)

## January 20, 2020 [Closed Meeting]

* Bosun: Christoph
* Artifacts:
    * Note Taker: Christoph
* Steering Committee Attendees:
    * Christoph Blecker
    * Derek Carr
    * Nikhita Raghunath
    * Paris Pittman
    * Davanum Srinivas
* Members of the Community present:
    * N/A
* Topics
    * Steering Panel for Amsterdam
        * Explanation of what steering is
        * Have better seed questions
        * Possibly right before a break
        * Christoph to follow up on panel
    * Chair Meeting(s)
        * There was value, and these will continue
        * Lots of different communication methods
        * Agenda ahead of time, minutes afterwards to the mailing list
    * CNCF Contributor Experience
        * High level SIG at CNCF level
        * Take some of our learnings to the rest of the CNCF
    * Contributor Experience Survey - next steps
        * 211 responses
    * User Groups
        * Follow up discussion on [https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues/149](https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues/149)
        * Concerns about proliferation?
        * Possibly move to CNCF?
    * Suggestion for Apache [PMC-style roll call](https://www.apache.org/dev/pmc.html#roll-call)
    * Public meeting calendar invite

## January 6, 2020 [Public Meeting]

* Bosun:
* Artifacts:
    * Note Taker: Christoph
* Steering Committee Attendees:
    * Aaron Crickenberger
    * Paris Pittman
    * Christoph Blecker
    * Davanum Srinivas
    * Nikhita Raghunath
    * Tim St. Clair
* Members of the Community present:
    *
* Topics
    * Moving thurs community meeting to monthly - castrojo
        * [sig-governance.md ](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/committee-steering/governance/sig-governance.md)states SIGs need to give an update quarterly but won’t meet that with new cadence ([https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/4323](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/4323))
        * Sigs do status updates at kubecon - count for this?
        * SIG updates out to sig mailing list? Should we allow updates via office hours?
        * SIG updates should be to the community at large, rather than just to the SIG itself
        * Quarterly cadence lines up to the release cycle
    * CNCF TOC Seat Follow Up
        * Deadline was extended to Jan 4th; numbers went out by amye
        * We need to widen our pool of eligibility for kubernetes (right now its kubernetes/community root, sc, and select few others)
        * [https://lists.cncf.io/g/cncf-toc/message/4002](https://lists.cncf.io/g/cncf-toc/message/4002)
        * Please see [https://www.cncf.io/blog/2019/12/13/faq-for-december-2019-toc-nominations/](https://www.cncf.io/blog/2019/12/13/faq-for-december-2019-toc-nominations/) as well
    * FYI -
        * ContribEx survey is going out today; pls get out to your contributor groups. Putting in servicedesk ticket for creative report post results.
        * SIG Chair/TL monthly call being organized; [https://github.com/kubernetes/community/issues/4364](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/issues/4364)
            * Please take this to any sigs you are in and talk to chairs/tls
