# Tim Pepper

I am [tpepper](https://github.com/tpepper) on GitHub, Slack, Gmail,
and I tweet about association football and tech @pythomit.

## What I've Done

I've been a user of and contributor to open source since the late
1990's, but I represent the newcomer in the Kubernetes community,
having been active for about a year now.  Contributions include:

* SIG Contributor Experience: developer documentation improvements and helping
  with new contributor activities at KubeCon (Copenhagen, Shanghai, Seattle)
* SIG Release: 1.12 release team lead; bug triage on 1.10 and 1.11 release teams

My past technical experience spans linux distribution
build/release/test/update and low level linux drivers and embedded
kernel work.

Outside of tech, servant leadership is part of who I am.  I've served
on multiple advisory boards for non-profit organizations.

## What I'll Do

I'm passionate about open source collaboration.  As the Kubernetes
community grows it is important that the project scale to efficiently
include a more diverse set of stakeholders.  I will advocate for
improved documentation, processes and automation for our growing
community.

I've witnessed first hand the past dramatic growth of the linux
kernel and OpenStack communities and how those communities struggled
through change.  I advocate for solutions that enable vendors,
distributions and hosting platforms to deliver their value, but I
also will work to protect the essence of Kubernetes.  Whether you
call Kubernetes "the linux of cloud" or the "distributed POSIX of
cloud" or some other metaphor expressing Kubernetes' status as
today's orchestrator of choice, I will foster a future where
Kubernetes has not fractured into a forest of unique deployments
and rather conformance testing provides a strong statement of
Kubernetes cross cloud portability.

## Where I Work

VMware's Open Source Technology Center
